# $e^{\text{RPCA}}$: Robust Principal Component Analysis for Exponential Family Distributions

This repository provides well-documented code that duplicates Figure 8b from the paper along with the output and the documentation.

Here, we consider the motivating steel defect detection problem from Section 2.3. The estimated low-rank structure (background pattern) $\mathbf{L}$ and the recovered sparse anomalies (defects) $\mathbf{S}$, using the $e^{\text{RPCA}}$, RPCA and ePCA in the steel defect detection application are computed and plotted. 

This folder includes four main files: **reduced_defect2.jpg**, **ERPCA_optimization.R**, **ePCA.R**, **steel_defect_ERPCA.Rmd**.

1. **reduced_defect2.jpg** is an uncorrupted steel sheet image with visible defects taken from Severstal [1] shown in Figure 1(left). The binary images are generated by normalizing the uncorrupted image and sampling via i.i.d. Bernoulli noise.

2. **ERPCA_optimization.R** solves the optimization problem (7) in the paper, with Gaussian noise for RPCA [2], and Bernoulli noise for $e^{\text{RPCA}}$.

3. **ePCA.R** is adapted from the original ePCA algorithm as presented in MATLAB in the ePCA paper [3].

4. **steel_defect_ERPCA.Rmd** computes the estimated low-rank structure (background pattern) $\mathbf{L}$ and the recovered sparse anomalies (defects) $\mathbf{S}$, using the $e^{\text{RPCA}}$ (with hyperparamter tuning), RPCA and ePCA in the steel defect detection application.

[1] PAO Severstal (2019). Severstal: Steel defect detection. Available: https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/severstal-steel-defect-detection.
[2] Cand`es, E. J., X. Li, Y. Ma, and J. Wright (2011). Robust principal component analysis? Association for Computing Machinery 58 (3).
[3] Liu, L., E. Dobriban, and A. Singer (2018). epca: High dimensional exponential family PCA. Annals of Applied Statistics 12 (4), 2121–2150.
